# Project Definition

https://www.businessprocessincubator.com/content/project-definition-document/#:~:text=The%20Project%20Definition%20Document%20is,and%20control%20the%20project%20effectively.

## Executive Summary

I aim to create a web application that helps runners improve their form, so that they can reduce the risk of injury and increase their speed and efficiency. The central feature of this web application will allow users to upload a video of themselves running for analysis. From the uploaded video, the central feature will analyze a user's running form, make comparisons to existing models of elite runners, and display these comparisons in an easy to view report format.

## Introduction

### Mission

To improve a runner's form through an web application so that they can reduce the risk of injury and increase their speed and efficiency.

### Cause for change

Consequences of inaction:

-   For Runners:
    -   Runners with poor form will have increased risk of injury
    -   Runners will plateau lower than their athleticism allows for
    -   Runners may leave the sport all together
-   For Me:
    -   I won't have context for popular technologies in web development

Benefits for action:

-   For Runners:
    -   Runners will reduce the risk of injury and increase their speed and efficiency
    -   Runners will enjoy the sport more when they aren't worrying so much about injury
    -   Runners may develop an appreciation for the beauty of running with excellent form
-   For Me:
    -   I will gain a better understanding of web development
    -   I will gain a better understanding of machine learning
    -   I will gain a better understanding of project management

### Objectives

-   Create a gait analysis utility that will gathering running form metrics from video.
-   Create models for ideal sprinting and distance form from existing videos of elite runners.
    -   Required inputs:
        -   Video of runner
        -   Runner parameters including but not limited to: height, weight, age, gender, and optionally body morphology
    -   Required output:
        -   Ideal running form metrics given runner input parameters
-   Create a web application which utilizes gait analysis and comparsions with ideal running models to generate reports
-   Reports must contain gait analysis metrics and comparisons to ideal models
-   A user must be able to compare their form against ideal models for sprinting and/or distance running styles. This could be done in the same or different reports.
-   Generation of gait analysis reports from uploaded videos must be available to all users, registered or unregistered, signed in or signed out
-   The gait analysis reports must be easily viewable in the web application and downloadable in an easy to view format
-   Registered and signed in users must be able to view submitted report history and progress reports
-   Registered and signed in users must be able to share all previous reports with full content using unique urls
-   Unregistered users must be able to view their current report
-   Unregistered users must be able to share some abbreviated form of their current report through a unique url
-   Reports generated by unregistered users will be saved in their abbreviated form until they are not accessed for more than 5 days, at which point the abbreviated report will be removed
-   The web application must be deployable through modern containerization technologies like docker

## Scope

### Deliverables

-   Utility that performs gait analysis on video
-   Models of ideal running form for both sprinting and distance styles
-   Web application (backend and front) containing:
    -   About Page
    -   Sign up/in/out functionality
    -   Central "Analyze" feature for uploading video, analyzing video, and generating reports
    -   Report views
        -   List item
        -   Card
        -   Detail
    -   For registered users:
        -   Progress views
            -   Card
            -   Detail
        -   Report history view (will show reports in list item form)
        -   Account views:
            -   Home
                -   shows progress and report history views
            -   Edit
                -   show account information editing views

### Boundaries

In Scope:

-   Allowing users to manipulate a defined set of high level analysis inputs. For example: height, weight, body morphology, age, gender
-   Initially, uploaded videos must be in a strict format that simplifies the gait analysis process. For example, the video could be a side view of user running on a treadmill with no obstructions.

Out of Scope:

-   Designing a Coach user type that woud allow for the management of multiple athletes
-   Annotating videos and images
-   Allowing users to tune fine grain gait analysis parameters. For example: adjusting video color levels, setting thresholds, etc.
-   Gait analysis of shakey, poorly framed, or moving frame videos

## Benefits

-   Better understanding of full stack web development technologies
-   Better understanding of machine vision techniques including pose estimation

## Risks

| Risk                                              | Impact (H/M/L) | Probability (H/M/L) | Management Strategy                                                           |
| ------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| chosen technologies are incompatible              | M              | L                   | Research full architecture before making technology decision                  |
| knowledge required to realize gait analysis       | H              | H                   | Budget plenty of time, reach out to experts, iterate, and test                |
| inexperience in web application development       | M              | H                   | Budget plenty of time, iterate, and test                                      |
| lack of data to sufficiently train running models | H              | M                   | Fall back on original content creation and remove sprinting model requirement |

## Delivery

### Approach

Since time is not the enemy here, I will opt for a phased approach to limit the risk. After each phase is complete, I will re-evaluate the plans for subsequent phases.

#### Phase 1 - Simplified Application

The aim of this phase is to create all but the most complex features. No actual gait analysis will be performed in this phase; I will substitute dummy information for the sake of reducing "big bang" implementations.

1. Site Mapping and Wireframing
2. Content Creation
3. Visual Design
4. User Testing

#### Phase 2 - Gait Analysis

This phase carries the most risk, as I don't have a good starting point for learning about machine vision. I will mitigate this risk by allotting plenty of time.

1. Research
2. Development
3. Integration with Phase 1
4. User Testing

#### Phase 3 - Deployment

The aim of this phase is to deploy the web application using modern technologies. Both for ease of maintenance and learning purposes.

1. Deploy as a containerized service to AWS

### Critical success factors

These are factors which directly contirbute to the success of the project's objectives and deliverables.

-   Alloted time when balanced with other activities
-   Engagement with the material
-   Understanding of project and web application architecture
-   Employment opportunities

### Constraints

-   Time
-   Money
-   Learning rate
-   Team size of ... 1

### Dependencies

-   My own gumption

### Assumptions

-   I can learn the skills required to achieve the objectives

## High Level Milestone Plan

| Phase 1 Milestones      | Duration (Weeks) | Date           |
| ----------------------- | ---------------- | -------------- |
| Site Map and Wireframes | 1.5              | June 19, 2020  |
| Content Creation        | 3                | July 10, 2020  |
| Visual Design           | 2                | July 24, 2020  |
| User Testing            | 2                | August 7, 2020 |

| Phase 2 Milestones       | Duration (Weeks) | Date               |
| ------------------------ | ---------------- | ------------------ |
| Research                 | 1                | August 14, 2020    |
| Development              | 4                | September 11, 2020 |
| Integration with Phase 1 | 2                | September 25, 2020 |
| User Testing             | 2                | Oct 9, 2020        |

| Phase 3 Milestones                       | Duration (Weeks) | Date         |
| ---------------------------------------- | ---------------- | ------------ |
| Deploy as a containerized service to AWS | 3                | Oct 30, 2020 |
